docs: #860 Kerberos authentication (#1005)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/manage/security/authentication.mdx

:::

## Enable SASL authentication

Simple Authentication Security Layer (SASL) is a framework that lets the user choose the authentication mechanism. The mechanism determines which authentication flow the client uses for that user/password. 

Redpanda supports multiple authentication mechanisms: GSSAPI (Kerberos) and SCRAM (Salted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism). SCRAM provides strong encryption for user names and passwords by default and does not require an external data store for user information. Redpanda supports  `SCRAM-SHA-256` and `SCRAM-SHA-512`.

:::note
SASL authentication is only available for the Kafka API.
:::

:::info
Kerberos authentication requires an [Enterprise license](../../introduction/licenses). To upgrade, contact [Redpanda sales](https://redpanda.com/try-redpanda?section=enterprise-cloud).
:::

> When you run a command with SASL authentication, you must include the mechanism with the following flag: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
rpk supports SASL/SCRAM, but not SASL/GSSAPI.
:::

When you run an rpk command with SASL/SCRAM, you must include the mechanism with the following flag:
```

As a security best practice, don't use the superuser to interact with the cluster, and don't delete the superuser (in case you need to grant permissions to new users later). In addition, when you create the superuser, you specify a password, which adds a level of security. If you delete the user, someone else could re-create the user with a different password.
:::

## Enable SASL authentication

> Simple Authentication Security Layer (SASL) is a framework that lets the user choose the authentication mechanism. The mechanism determines which authentication flow the client uses for that user/password. Redpanda supports multiple authentication mechanisms: GSSAPI (Kerberos) and SCRAM (Salted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Simple Authentication Security Layer (SASL) is a framework that lets you choose the authentication mechanism. The mechanism determines which authentication flow the client uses for that user/password. Redpanda supports the following authentication mechanisms:

- GSSAPI (Kerberos)
- SCRAM (Salted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism)
```

```bash
rpk topic create littlefoot \
--user <panda> \
--password <pandaPassword> \
--sasl-mechanism SCRAM-SHA-256
```

### Configure SASL authentication

> To configure SASL authentication for the Kafka API, set `authentication_method` of the listener to `sasl`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure SASL authentication for the Kafka API, set the `authentication_method` property of the listener to `sasl`. 
```

### Enable SASL with TLS encryption 

> SASL provides authentication, but not encryption. You can, however, configure TLS to only handle encryption, and use SASL for authentication. This is useful if you require flexibility in your authorization mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SASL provides authentication, but not encryption. You can additionally configure TLS to handle encryption.
```

### Enable SASL with TLS encryption 

> SASL provides authentication, but not encryption. You can additionally configure TLS to handle encryption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SASL provides authentication, but not encryption. To provide encryption, you can enable TLS in addition to SASL.
```

// highlight-end
```

### Enable Kerberos

:::info
Kerberos authentication requires an [Enterprise license](../../introduction/licenses). To upgrade, contact [Redpanda sales](https://redpanda.com/try-redpanda?section=enterprise-cloud).
:::

#### Prerequisites

1. Ensure that host names and fully qualified domain names (FQDN) are configured properly.

2. Install the `krb5-workstation` library on all Redpanda nodes. For example, on RHEL/CentOS:
   
  ```bash
  $ sudo yum install krb5-workstation krb5-libs

>   ```

Reviewer: Nothing on this page requires those libraries. Redpanda packages the libraries it needs.

> 3. Install required libraries for Kerberos on Redpanda nodes. Configure the `/etc/krb5.conf` file to use Active Directory or another corporate key distribution center (KDC). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Configure the `/etc/krb5.conf` file to use Active Directory or another corporate key distribution center (KDC).`
```

   
   In the following example, `krb5.conf` shows realm information to point to the corporate KDC.

  ```bash
  [logging]
   default      = FILE:/var/log/krb5libs.log
   kdc          = FILE:/var/log/krb5kdc.log
   admin_server = FILE:/var/log/kadmind.log
  [libdefaults]
   default_realm    = REFARCH-AD.CLOUD.LAB.REDHAT.COM
   dns_lookup_realm = false
   dns_lookup_kdc   = false
   ticket_lifetime  = 24h
   renew_lifetime   = 7d
   forwardable      = true
  [realms]
   REFARCH-AD.CLOUD.LAB.REDHAT.COM = {
    kdc          = WIN-SRV1.REFARCH-AD.CLOUD.LAB.REDHAT.COM
    admin_server = WIN-SRV1.REFARCH-AD.CLOUD.LAB.REDHAT.COM
   }
  [domain_realm]
   .demo = REFARCH-AD.CLOUD.LAB.REDHAT.COM 
    demo = REFARCH-AD.CLOUD.LAB.REDHAT.COM
  ```

4. For each node, create the principal `redpanda/<FQDN>@<REALM>.COM`, ensuring that the expiration date is long enough and that the ticket is renewable.

> #### Enable Kerberos

Reviewer: I think we're missing a section for `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping` - the rules are described here: https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#security_authz_sasl

Reviewer: We can get and set them like this:

```
rpk cluster config get sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping
```
```
rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping '["RULE:[1:$1@$0](.*@MYDOMAIN.COM)s/@.*//","DEFAULT"]'

Author: Thanks @BenPope. Please confirm if these prereq steps look OK now: https://deploy-preview-1005--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/manage/security/authentication/#enable-kerberos

You configure Kerberos authentication using a keytab, which contains the user credentials. 

1. Define the location of the Redpanda keytab file. This must be located at an identical file path on all Redpanda nodes. Default is `/var/lib/redpanda/redpanda.keytab`.

  ```bash   
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_keytab <path>
  ```

2. Define the service principal to be used by Redpanda with the given keytab. Default is `redpanda`.
  
  ```bash
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal <name>
  ```

3. Append the list of allowed SASL mechanisms that clients can use to authenticate against the Kafka API. For example, if Redpanda currently supports only SCRAM then the configuration may return the following:

  ```bash
  $ rpk cluster config get sasl_mechanisms
  SCRAM
  ```

1. To add support for Kerberos, append the `sasl_mechanisms` property, either the value `GSSAPI`:

  ```bash
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_mechanisms SCRAM,GSSAPI
  ```

>   or with its synonym value `KERBEROS`:

Reviewer: Let's drop this for now, and have only GSSAPI as the way for configuring GSSAPI.

  ```bash
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_mechanisms SCRAM,KERBEROS
  ```

5. Enable SASL, if not already enabled:

  ```bash
  $ rpk cluster config set enable_sasl true
  ```

6. If authentication is being configured for the first time, you may need to configure authorization [ACLs](../../security/authorization#acls) before users can access Redpanda resources.

> ### Configure Schema Registry and HTTP Proxy to connect to Redpanda with SASL

Reviewer: We should probably make a note that the Schema Registry and HTTP Proxy do not support SASL/GSSAPI, only SASL/SCRAM.

2. Configure the `/etc/krb5.conf` [Kerberos configuration file](http://web.mit.edu/Kerberos/krb5-latest/doc/admin/conf_files/krb5_conf.html) to use Active Directory or another corporate key distribution center (KDC). In the following `krb5.conf` example, realm information points to the corporate KDC.

  ```bash
  [logging]
   default      = FILE:/var/log/krb5libs.log
   kdc          = FILE:/var/log/krb5kdc.log
   admin_server = FILE:/var/log/kadmind.log
  [libdefaults]
   default_realm    = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
   dns_lookup_realm = false
   dns_lookup_kdc   = false
   ticket_lifetime  = 24h
   renew_lifetime   = 7d
   forwardable      = true
  [realms]
   EXAMPLE.REALM.COM = {
    kdc          = WIN-SRV1.EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
    admin_server = WIN-SRV1.EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
   }
  [domain_realm]
   .demo = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM 
    demo = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
  ```

3. Set `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping`. This maps external users onto Redpanda principals used in the ACLs.

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config get sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping
  ```

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping '["RULE:[1:$1@$0](.*@MYDOMAIN.COM)s/@.*//","DEFAULT"]'
  ```

>   For information about the rules, see the [Kafka documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#security_authz_sasl).

Reviewer: suggestion:
```
3. Set `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping`. This maps external users onto Redpanda principals used in the ACLs.

  By default Redpanda matches the primary of the Kerberos user principal (UPN) of the user.

  Each rule has the following format:
  
    * `RULE:[n:string](regexp)s/pattern/replacement/g/c`. Where:
    
      * `n` is an integer that indicates how many components the target principal should have.
      * If this matches, then a string will be formed from `string`, substituting the realm of the principal for `$0` and the `n`’th component of the principal for `$n` (e.g., if the principal was `johndoe/admin` then `[2:$2$1foo]` would result in the string `adminjohndoefoo`).
      * If this string matches `regexp`, then the `s//[g]` substitution command will be run over the string. The optional `g` will cause the substitution to be global over the string, instead of replacing only the first match in the string.
      * `/c` is optional and can be either `/L` or `/U` to make the match lowercase or uppercase.

    * `DEFAULT` The principal name will be used as the local user name. If the principal has more than one component or is not in the default realm, this rule is not applicable and the conversion will fail.

  Some examples for a Kerberos UPN without a host (`jdoe`) and with a host (`jdoe/host`):

  | Translation | jdoe | jdoe/host |
  | -- | -- | -- |
  | `[1:$1@$0]` | `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[1:$1]` | `jdoe` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[1:$1.foo]` | `jdoe.foo` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[1:$1](.*)s/(.*)/$1/U` | `JDOE` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[2:$1/$2@$0]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM` |
  | `[2:$1/$2]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe/host` |
  | `[2:$1@$0]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM` |
  | `[2:$1]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe` |
  | `[2:$1](.*)s//U` | Rule does not match² | `JDOE` |
  | `[2:$1/$2](.*)s/(^[/]*)\/^[/]*/$1\/$2//U` | Rule does not match² | `JDOE/host` |
  | `[2:$1/$2](.*)s/(^[/]*)\/^[/]*/$1\/$2/g/U` | Rule does not match² | `JDOE/HOST` |
  | `DEFAULT` | `jdoe` | `jdoe` |

  ¹ Rule does not match because there are two components in principal name `jdoe/host@YOUR-REALM.COM`

  ² Rule does not match because there is one component in principal name `jdoe@YOUR-REALM.COM`

  The first rule that matches is used to extract a principal.

  To get the `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping` property, run:

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config get sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping
  ```

  To set the `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping` property, run:

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping '["RULE:[1:$1@$0](.*@MYDOMAIN.COM)s/@.*//","DEFAULT"]'
  ```
@michael-redpanda I took these from the PRD, but are they correct?

Author: Thank you, @michael-redpanda, @BenPope, and @dcoded! I've incorporated your feedback. Please give this another review!

> 4. For each node, create the principal `redpanda/<FQDN>@<REALM>`, ensuring that the expiration date is long enough and that the ticket is renewable.

Reviewer 3: I believe we want "key tab" instead of "ticket".  @BenPope ?  Expiration of what?  The key tab?

Reviewer: I don't think we should specify too much here, it's up to the administrator of Kerberos.

Setting up the `krb5.conf`, and keytabs are up to the Kerberos administrator. 

```suggestion
4. Ensure each node has a valid kerberos service principal (SPN) `redpanda/<FQDN>@<REALM>`.
```

Perhaps the order is tweaked a bit:

### Prerequisites:

1. Ensure hostnames are fully qualified (we should add some more details here).
2. Ensure there is an `/etc/krb5.conf`on the node (I don't know if this is strictly necessary).
3. Ensure the KDC has a Kerberos service principal (SPN ) for each node of the form `primary/<FQDN>@<REALM>`.
4. Ensure each node has a keytab containing the SPN for that node. This must be located at an identical file path on all Redpanda nodes. Default is `/var/lib/redpanda/redpanda.keytab`.

### Enable Kerberos

1. If the keytab isn't in the default location, set the location.
2. Define the primary of the Kerberos service principal (SPN) to be used by Redpanda with the given keytab. Default is `redpanda`.
3. Set `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping`. This maps Kerberos user principals (UPNs) onto Redpanda principals used in the ACLs.

// highlight-end
```

### Enable Kerberos

> You configure Kerberos authentication using a keytab, which contains the user credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You configure Kerberos authentication using a keytab, which contains credentials for the service.
```

   kdc          = FILE:/var/log/krb5kdc.log
   admin_server = FILE:/var/log/kadmind.log
  [libdefaults]
   default_realm    = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
   dns_lookup_realm = false
   dns_lookup_kdc   = false
   ticket_lifetime  = 24h
   renew_lifetime   = 7d
   forwardable      = true
  [realms]
   EXAMPLE.REALM.COM = {
    kdc          = WIN-SRV1.EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
    admin_server = WIN-SRV1.EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
   }
  [domain_realm]
   .demo = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM 
    demo = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
  ```

3. Ensure that the KDC has a valid Kerberos service principal name (SPN) for each node in the form `primary/<FQDN>@<REALM>`.

4. Ensure that each node has a keytab containing the SPN for that node. This must be located at an identical file path on each Redpanda node. Default is `/var/lib/redpanda/redpanda.keytab`.

#### Enable Kerberos

1. If the keytab is not in the default location, then set its location:

  ```bash   
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_keytab <path>
  ```

2. Define the primary of the Kerberos SPN to be used by Redpanda with the given keytab. Default is `redpanda`.
  
  ```bash
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal <name>

>   ```

Reviewer 3: Do we want to call out what part of the `SPN` this is?  Or are we assuming the administrator knows what this is?

Reviewer: From Prerequisites:

> Ensure that the KDC has a valid Kerberos service principal name (SPN) for each node in the form primary/<FQDN>@<REALM>.

Improvements welcome.

Reviewer 3: I think that's fine.

 
 ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping '["RULE:[1:$1@$0](.*@MYDOMAIN.COM)s/@.*//","DEFAULT"]'
  ```
  
  By default, Redpanda matches the primary of the Kerberos UPN of the user. Each rule has the following format:
  
   * `RULE:[n:string](regexp)s/pattern/replacement/g/c` where:
    
      * `n` is an integer that indicates how many components the target principal should have.
      * If this matches, then a string is formed from `string`, substituting the realm of the principal for `$0` and the `n`’th component of the principal for `$n`. (For example, if the principal is `johndoe/admin`, then `[2:$2$1foo]` results in the string `adminjohndoefoo`.)
      * If this string matches `regexp`, then the `s//[g]` substitution command is run over the string. The optional `g` causes the substitution to be global over the string, instead of replacing only the first match in the string.
      * `/c` is optional and can be either `/L` or `/U` to make the match lowercase or uppercase.
    
	* `DEFAULT` The principal name is used as the local user name. If the principal has more than one component or is not in the default realm, then the conversion fails.
  

>   Examples of a Kerberos UPN without a host (`jdoe`) and with a host (`jdoe/host`):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Examples of a Kerberos UPN without a host (`jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM`) and with a host (`jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM`):
```

>   | Translation | jdoe | jdoe/host |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  | Translation | jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM | jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM |
```

// highlight-end
```

### Enable Kerberos

You configure Kerberos authentication using a keytab, which contains credentials for the service.

:::info
Kerberos authentication requires an [Enterprise license](../../../get-started/licenses). To upgrade, contact [Redpanda sales](https://redpanda.com/try-redpanda?section=enterprise-cloud).
:::

#### Prerequisites

> 1. Ensure that host names are fully qualified domain names (FQDN).

Reviewer 4: Must users satisfy the prereqs here in order? If nit, use bullets instead of numbered steps.

4. Ensure that each node has a keytab containing the SPN for that node. This must be located at an identical file path on each Redpanda node. Default is `/var/lib/redpanda/redpanda.keytab`.

#### Enable Kerberos

1. If the keytab is not in the default location, then set its location:

  ```bash   
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_keytab <path>
  ```

2. If the krb5.conf file is not in the default location, then set its location:

  ```bash   
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_config <path>
  ```

3. Define the primary of the Kerberos SPN to be used by Redpanda with the given keytab. Default is `redpanda`.

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal <name>
  ```

4. Set `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping`. This maps Kerberos user principal names (UPNs) onto Redpanda principals used in the ACLs. For example:
 
 ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping '["RULE:[1:$1@$0](.*@MYDOMAIN.COM)s/@.*//","DEFAULT"]'
  ```
  
  By default, Redpanda matches the primary of the Kerberos UPN of the user. Each rule has the following format:
  

>    * `RULE:[n:string](regexp)s/pattern/replacement/g/c` where:

Reviewer 4: I don't see a description/definition of `g` and `c` here anywhere...they are mentioned below, but I have no idea what they represent in the rule.

Reviewer 4: Is `g` an indicator that the update is global then?

Reviewer 4: Think I see now, but had to read the following bullets first.

Author: I clarified this.

    
      * `n` is an integer that indicates how many components the target principal should have.

>       * If this matches, then a string is formed from `string`, substituting the realm of the principal for `$0` and the `n`’th component of the principal for `$n`. (For example, if the principal is `johndoe/admin@realm.com`, then `[2:$2$1foo]` results in the string `adminjohndoefoo`.)

Reviewer 4: What is "this" here? Name it.

Reviewer 4: Also, ..."a string is formed from `string`, ... I had to reread this a few times. Can it be worded more clearly? A string forms a string?

      * `/c` is optional and can be either `/L` or `/U` to make the match lowercase or uppercase.
    
	* `DEFAULT` The principal name is used as the local user name. If the principal has more than one component or is not in the default realm, then the conversion fails.
  
  Examples of a Kerberos UPN without a host (`jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM`) and with a host (`jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM`):
  
  | Translation | jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM | jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM |
  | -- | -- | -- |
  | `[1:$1@$0]` | `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[1:$1]` | `jdoe` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[1:$1.foo]` | `jdoe.foo` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[2:$1/$2@$0]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM` |
  | `[2:$1/$2]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe/host` |
  | `[2:$1@$0]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM` |
  | `[2:$1]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe` |
  | `DEFAULT` | `jdoe` | `jdoe` |
  ¹ Rule does not match because there are two components in principal name `jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM`.

  ² Rule does not match because there is one component in principal name `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM`.
  

>   The first rule that matches is used to extract a principal.

Reviewer 4: Kind gets lost in the footnotes--seems like an important point.

1. Append the list of allowed SASL mechanisms that clients can use to authenticate against the Kafka API. 

  To get the list of all allowed SASL mechanisms, run:

  ```bash
   rpk cluster config get sasl_mechanisms
   ```

   <details>
   <summary>
   Example output
   </summary>

>   In this case, Redpanda currently supports only SCRAM:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  In this case, Redpanda supports only SCRAM:
```
The content should be accurate for the current release, so that adverb is not necessary here.

   ```bash
   SCRAM
   ```

   </details>

  To add support for Kerberos, append the `sasl_mechanisms` property with the value `GSSAPI`:

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_mechanisms '["SCRAM","GSSAPI"]'
  ```

5. Enable SASL, if not already enabled:

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config set kafka_enable_authorization true
  ```

:::note

> If you're configuring authentication for the first time, you may need to configure [ACLs](../../security/authorization#acls) before users can access Redpanda resources.

Reviewer 4: Hmmm...you may need, so you may not need to as well? If they absolutely need to configure ACLs first, then say that. If not, under what circumstances would the user not need to configure ACLs upon the first configuration of AuthN?

4. Ensure that each node has a keytab containing the SPN for that node. This must be located at an identical file path on each Redpanda node. Default is `/var/lib/redpanda/redpanda.keytab`.

#### Enable Kerberos

1. If the keytab is not in the default location, then set its location:

  ```bash   
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_keytab <path>
  ```

2. Define the primary of the Kerberos SPN to be used by Redpanda with the given keytab. Default is `redpanda`.
  
  ```bash
  $ rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal <name>
  ```

3. Set `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping`. This maps Kerberos user principal names (UPNs) onto Redpanda principals used in the ACLs. For example:
 
 ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping '["RULE:[1:$1@$0](.*@MYDOMAIN.COM)s/@.*//","DEFAULT"]'
  ```
  
  By default, Redpanda matches the primary of the Kerberos UPN of the user. Each rule has the following format:
  
   * `RULE:[n:string](regexp)s/pattern/replacement/g/c` where:
    
      * `n` is an integer that indicates how many components the target principal should have.

>       * If this matches, then a string is formed from `string`, substituting the realm of the principal for `$0` and the `n`’th component of the principal for `$n`. (For example, if the principal is `johndoe/admin`, then `[2:$2$1foo]` results in the string `adminjohndoefoo`.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      * If this matches, then a string is formed from `string`, substituting the realm of the principal for `$0` and the `n`’th component of the principal for `$n`. (For example, if the principal is `johndoe/admin@realm.com`, then `[2:$2$1foo]` results in the string `adminjohndoefoo`.)
```

Author: fixed, thanks @michael-redpanda!

      * If this string matches `regexp`, then the `s//[g]` substitution command is run over the string. The optional `g` causes the substitution to be global over the string, instead of replacing only the first match in the string.
      * `/c` is optional and can be either `/L` or `/U` to make the match lowercase or uppercase.
    
	* `DEFAULT` The principal name is used as the local user name. If the principal has more than one component or is not in the default realm, then the conversion fails.
  
  Examples of a Kerberos UPN without a host (`jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM`) and with a host (`jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM`):
  
  | Translation | jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM | jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM |
  | -- | -- | -- |
  | `[1:$1@$0]` | `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[1:$1]` | `jdoe` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[1:$1.foo]` | `jdoe.foo` | Rule does not match¹ |
  | `[2:$1/$2@$0]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM` |
  | `[2:$1/$2]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe/host` |
  | `[2:$1@$0]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM` |
  | `[2:$1]` | Rule does not match² | `jdoe` |
  | `DEFAULT` | `jdoe` | `jdoe` |

>   ¹ Rule does not match because there are two components in principal name `jdoe/host@YOUR-REALM.COM`.
> 
>   ² Rule does not match because there is one component in principal name `jdoe@YOUR-REALM.COM`.

Reviewer 3: My apologies, I missed these two.

```suggestion
  ¹ Rule does not match because there are two components in principal name `jdoe/host@EXAMPLE.COM`.

  ² Rule does not match because there is one component in principal name `jdoe@EXAMPLE.COM`.
```

Author: fixed

  
  The first rule that matches is used to extract a principal.

1. Append the list of allowed SASL mechanisms that clients can use to authenticate against the Kafka API. 
  
  For example, if Redpanda currently supports only SCRAM:

   <details>
   <summary>
   Example output
   </summary>

   ```bash

>    $ rpk cluster config get sasl_mechanisms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: This is the command to run, not the output.

Consider:

1. Append the list of allowed SASL mechanisms that clients can use to authenticate against the Kafka API.

    To get the list of all allowed SASL mechanisms, run the following:
  
    ```bash
    rpk cluster config get sasl_mechanisms
    ```

   <details>
   <summary>
   Example output
   </summary>

    In this case, Redpanda currently supports only SCRAM:
  
    ```
     SCRAM
     ```

     </details>

Author: thanks Jake!

   kdc          = FILE:/var/log/krb5kdc.log
   admin_server = FILE:/var/log/kadmind.log
  [libdefaults]
   default_realm    = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
   dns_lookup_realm = false
   dns_lookup_kdc   = false
   ticket_lifetime  = 24h
   renew_lifetime   = 7d
   forwardable      = true
  [realms]
   EXAMPLE.REALM.COM = {
    kdc          = WIN-SRV1.EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
    admin_server = WIN-SRV1.EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
   }
  [domain_realm]
   .demo = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM 
    demo = EXAMPLE.REALM.COM
  ```

3. Ensure that the KDC has a valid Kerberos service principal name (SPN) for each node in the form `primary/<FQDN>@<REALM>`.

4. Ensure that each node has a keytab containing the SPN for that node. This must be located at an identical file path on each Redpanda node. Default is `/var/lib/redpanda/redpanda.keytab`.

#### Enable Kerberos

1. If the keytab is not in the default location, then set its location:

  ```bash   
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_keytab <path>
  ```

2. Define the primary of the Kerberos SPN to be used by Redpanda with the given keytab. Default is `redpanda`.
  
  ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal <name>
  ```

> 3. Set `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping`. This maps Kerberos user principal names (UPNs) onto Redpanda principals used in the ACLs. For example:

Reviewer: Added a new configuration parameter in https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/pull/8609
~~~suggestion
1. If the keytab is not in the default location, then set its location:

  ```bash   
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_keytab <path>
  ```

2. If the krb5.conf file is not in the default location, then set its location:

  ```bash   
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_config <path>
  ```

3. Define the primary of the Kerberos SPN to be used by Redpanda with the given keytab. Default is `redpanda`.

  ```bash
  rpk cluster config set sasl_kerberos_principal <name>
  ```

4. Set `sasl_kerberos_principal_mapping`. This maps Kerberos user principal names (UPNs) onto Redpanda principals used in the ACLs. For example:
~~~
